---
title: '2016'
date: Sun, 25 Dec 2016 20:32:00 +0000
draft: false
tags: [Uncategorized]
---

  

2016 is the year that has changed me forever

Steve Jobs' last words changed my view of life completely!
==========================================================

  

_I reached the pinnacle of success in the business world._

_In others’ eyes, my life is an epitome of success._

_However, aside from work, I have little joy. In the end, wealth is only a fact of life that I am accustomed to._

_At this moment, lying on the sick bed and recalling my whole life, I realize that all the recognition and wealth that I took so much pride in, have paled and become meaningless in the face of impending death._

_In the darkness, I look at the green lights from the life supporting machines and hear the humming mechanical sounds, I can feel the breath of god of death drawing closer…_

_Now I know, when we have accumulated sufficient wealth to last our lifetime, we should pursue other matters that are unrelated to wealth…_

_Should be something that is more important:_

_Perhaps relationships, perhaps art, perhaps a dream from younger days …_

_Non-stop pursuing of wealth will only turn a person into a twisted being, just like me._

_God gave us the senses to let us feel the love in everyone’s heart, not the illusions brought about by wealth._

_The wealth I have won in my life I cannot bring with me._

_What I can bring is only the memories precipitated by love._

_That’s the true riches which will follow you, accompany you, giving you strength and light to go on._

_ove can travel a thousand miles. Life has no limit. Go where you want to go. Reach the height you want to reach. It is all in your heart and in your hands._

_What is the most expensive bed in the world? – “Sick bed” …_

_You can employ someone to drive the car for you, make money for you but you cannot have someone to bear the sickness for you._

_Material things lost can be found. But there is one thing that can never be found when it is lost – “Life”._

_When a person goes into the operating room, he will realize that there is one book that he has yet to finish reading – “Book of Healthy Life”._

_Whichever stage in life we are at right now, with time, we will face the day when the curtain comes down._

_Treasure Love for your family, love for your spouse, love for your friends…_

_Treat yourself well. Cherish others._

  
I will change! and will do What I love and Love what I Do.